# Administering application content {#creatingibmconnectionssuperusers .reference}

To view and control content in your deployment, you can create a dedicated global administrator or administrators with administrative capabilities over content in the applications.

## Global administrator capabilities { .section}

A global administrator can edit and remove objectionable content. The Moderation feature can help this process, but not all components implement Moderation. Also, although some wsadmin commands can be helpful with removing objectionable content, they do not cover all situations. For example, when the only Owner of, for example, an activity or community, leaves the organization or is away for an extended time period, the Global Administrator can add more owners and even replace the original owner.

|Application|Administrative capabilities|Steps|
|-----------|---------------------------|-----|
|Activities

|-   Access any activity that is returned by search
-   Open any activity bu using a URL address
-   Modify any activity
-   Delete any activity or entry
-   See private entries. They cannot change privacy settings.
-   Restore any activity or entry from the Trash.
-   Add, remove, and change permissions of activity members. \(For a community activity, the administrator must be a community member to make membership changes.\)

|To view and control Activities content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Activities Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.
3.  Add the user to the Search Java EE search-admin role. For more information, see *Roles*.

|
|Blogs and Ideation Blogs

|-   Configure administration settings
-   Edit any blog or blog entry
-   Delete any blog, entry, or comment

|To view and control Blogs and Ideation Blogs content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Blogs Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

When the user logs into Blogs or Ideation Blogs, they see an **Administration** tab where they can configure administration settings.

|
|Bookmarks

|-   Remove unwanted links

|There is no way to create a comparable administrator for Bookmarks. However, adding a user to the Java EE search-admin role allows that user to see any bookmark in Bookmark search results. Any administrator can use the Bookmarks wsadmin commands to remove unwanted links from the Bookmarks application.

|
|Communities

|-   Access to any community, public or restricted
-   Rights to view and update community settings, members, invitations, bookmarks, and feeds
-   With some extra configuration, rights to access and edit content in remote application widgets
-   Users with this role see an extra Administration link that allows them to administer the Community Catalog.

|To view and control Communities content, follow steps in *Administering Communities content*.

|
|Files

|-   Editor access on all files

|To view and control Files content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Files Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

|
|Forums

|-   Edit, update, or delete any forum, forum topic, or reply

|To view and control Forums content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Forums Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

|
|Home page

|-   Administer site-wide settings for the Home page from the Home page administration user interface or by using the wsadmin client
-   Add custom widgets for use on the Home page
-   Enable and disable widgets
-   Enable and disable the My Page view

|Users with the Home page administrator role have access to an extra Administration view on their Home page. When you are assigned this role, you can see an Administration option in the navigation sidebar, under the My Page option. Select this option to access a simple, form-based user interface where you can carry out key tasks.

|
|News

|Events are generated by the various HCL Connections applications whenever an activity occurs in the system. Information about these events is stored in the News repository. The Home page application pulls data from the repository to display only the events that are relevant to a particular user on that user's Home page. You can configure News configuration settings to control how the information that the Home page receives from the News repository is stored and administered.

The administrators are the users that are mapped in the **admin** Java EE role in the News application.

-   Register a new application or source type so that it is displayed in the HCL Connections user interface.
-   Update, enable, or disable an application registration.
-   Check out/check in News repository configuration files.
-   Remove single or multiple reply-to IDs.
-   Remove all microblog and associated data for a community from the News repository.
-   Synchronize news data with other applications.
-   Return an XML synchronization report of the community resources that are held in the News repository.
-   Return information about a scheduled task.
-   Delete any status update and comment on status updates in the system, including community status updates.
-   Create a status update in any community.
-   Change the status update settings in any community.
-   View the Activity Stream feed from any community

|View and control News content by using scripts that are accessed by using the wsadmin client as detailed in the *Administering the News repository* section.

|
|Profiles

|-   Delete photos
-   Edit user **About Me** and **Background** information
-   Activate or deactivate any profile
-   Edit core user attributes

|To view and control Profiles content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Profiles Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

You must use wsadmin commands to delete photos, edit **About Me** and **Background** information, and activate or inactivate any profile. For more information, see *Profiles administrative commands*.

Use the Profiles REST ATOM API to edit core user attributes. For more information, see *Profiles Administration API*. Attributes that you cannot edit are link roles, friends, tags, and the following and follower lists. To edit those attributes, you must use direct SQL.

|
|Search

|Search in any application returns all content. For example, a search in Communities returns private communities even if you are not a member.

|To have search return all content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Search Java EE **search-admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

|
|Wikis

|-   Search returns all content
-   Create, edit, read, and delete any content
-   Remove a wiki creator from wiki membership

|To view and control Wikis content:

1.  Find or create a user who is assigned to this purpose.
2.  Add the user to the Wikis Java EE **admin** role. For more information, see *Roles*.

**Note:** When a user creates a wiki, they are the owner of that wiki. An administrator can add new owners to the wiki, but the creator of the wiki cannot be removed from the membership. Direct SQL manipulation on the database is required to reassign the creator and remove them from the membership.

|

**Parent topic:**[Managing content](../admin/c_admin_common_managing_content.md)

**Related information**  


[Managing community content](../admin/c_admin_communities_control_content.md)

[Administering community content](../admin/t_admin_communities_create_superuser.md)

[Profiles administrative commands](../admin/r_admin_profiles_admin_props.md)

[Roles](../admin/r_admin_common_user_roles.md)

